<h1 align="center">How to Join the Cross-Chain Ecosystem</h1>


## Overview

The poly cross-chain ecosystem provides a platform for various chains to interact and transfer data and conduct cross-chain transactions. Any chain can freely join the ecosystem. However, the chains that support smart contracts can interact and transfer all kinds of information between chains, while the chains that do not support smart contracts are limited to cross-chain asset transfer. 

There are two ways to verify the transaction block and the cross-chain transaction information it carries:

- Header Sync: Verify the block header based on the critical blockchain data such as validator set and their commitment, signature, mining difficulties. Verify the cross-chain transaction based on the corresponding Merkle proof of cross-chain events and transactions
- Consensus vote： Every Poly node act as a full node of the target blockchain, validating the blocks and cross-chain transactions following the rules of the side chain. The success of the cross-chain request depends on the consensus vote result of poly nodes

Consensus Vote is not suggested for security and scalability reasons unless Header Sync can not be achieved. Here are two factors that determine the cross-chain event can be verified based on Header Sync:

- The blockchain support Merkle proof for verifying transactions, whether it has Merkle tree generation and verification method for the ledger records or transactions. This allows the relay chain to determine the legitimacy of the transaction records.
- The block headers have the validator set and their commitment or signature for verification. In other words, relayers who act as light clients can obtain the validator sets and their commitment or signature from only the block header information and ensure the legitimacy of the block headers.

### Block Header Synchronization SCENERIAL

The general steps for joining poly cross-chain ecosystem using header sync scenario are as follows:

- Deploy Contract CCM/CCMP/CCD/LockProxy/Wrapper or develop a specific interface that has the same functionality as a contract, for more details, see Chapter "Core Smart Contract List"(Attach a Link to smartcontractList.MD)
- Register the chain, approve the registration by consensus vote. To update the registered chain information, the registered account needs to send an application to the relay chain when updating side chain information. An application needs to be approved by at least two-thirds of the current consensus nodes to carry out the update action successfully.
- Synchronize an initial block header of the side chain to poly chain, and synchronize an initial block header of poly chain to the side chain's ccm smart contract.
- Synchronize all the consequent blocks of the side chain to poly chain. Synchronize some of the valuable blocks of the relay chain to the ccm contract of the side chain.
- Verify cross-chain transaction using Merkle state root hash of block header and Merkle proof generated by source chain. 

The information requirement that needs to be clarified will be introduced in the chapter(Attach a Link to element. MD )
the module and interface method will be presented in detail in the branches (Attach a Link to the guideline. MD )

### Consensus Vote SCENERIAL

The general steps for joining poly cross-chain ecosystem using header sync scenario are as follows:

- Deploy Contract CCM/CCMP/CCD/LockProxy/Wrapper or develop a specific interface that has the same functionality as a contract, for more details, see Chapter "Core Smart Contract List"(Attach a Link)
- Register the chain, approve the registration by consensus vote. To update the registered chain information, the registered account needs to send an application to the relay chain when updating side chain information. An application needs to be approved by at least two-thirds of the current consensus nodes to carry out the update action successfully.
- Every Poly node acts as a full node of the side chain, validating the blocks and cross-chain transactions following the side chain rules and submitting them to the poly chain.
- Verify cross-chain events and transactions using consensus vote of poly nodes

